## Inspiration
On the first night in Rome before VHacks, our team visited a local center for refugees that helps refugees and migrants resettle in Rome, despite the hardships of an unfamiliar, harsh urban life. Some of these refugees are lucky enough to get jobs, but because of the often informal and spontaneous nature of their limited job opportunities and their lack of financial documentation or credit history, even refugees who are making money cannot find apartments or housing. We were especially taken by this problem: even those who work hard and reach the cusp of rising up out of poverty still lack adequate access to crucial financial tools.

## Credit/Ability Facilitates Trust and De-Risks Provision of Services to Refugees
One of the biggest barriers for refugee access to services like housing occurs because they cannot prove their credit or repayment history. Credit/Ability is a "credibility" scoring application that provides a refugee a way to collate their history and demonstrate their reliability in employment leasing to gain easier access to services like housing. Credit/Ability is designed primarily for vulnerable populations like refugees who may not have the formal financial or employment history to receive credit scores. Credit/Ability is designed to collate and verify a person's history, based on any informal/short-term employment, microloans, rent payments they've made, combined with risk profiling based on their unique contexts.

In addition to receiving a "credibility score," refugees can also apply for lease support through a 3rd party guarantor, like pooled funds from faith-based organizations. By proving to landlords that these refugees can be reliable tenants through both a credibility score and a guarantee, refugees can access housing independently and help increase their own self-reliance.

## What's next for MR4: credit/ability
We aim to tap into existing networks of faith based organizations already working with refugees who would be willing to act as guarantors. Our initial target markets are Italy and the US to test and refine our model. Refugee contexts vary significantly in different countries and we think its important to test this model in 2 countries with vastly different regulatory frameworks, housing situation, and challenges with refugee integration.

We have identified 2 initial networks - USIG and Catholic Charities. Tapping into these networks will be key as they can help us easily scale and replicate once the initial model is proven. For the initial testing in Italy and the US, we propose identifying local champions such as the Archdiocese of Newark (who we are familiar with through our University) who have shown an interest in refugee resettlement and devoted resources to this issue.
